so it's victimizing yourself a coping
mechanism victimizing yourself is a
habit right it's something that you
learn to do it it's something that you
become comfortable with and the mind has
a really really bizarre like it has a
really bizarre truth which is that it
prefers the comfortable to the good so
if your mind has a choice between
picking something that it's familiar
with and picking something that's good
it's actually gonna pick something
that's familiar with and what I want you
guys to understand about victimizing
yourself is that someone who victimizes
themself is in an abusive relationship
with themselves and we have to remember
that people stay in abusive
relationships human beings saying
abusive relationships all the time and
then the question becomes why do people
stay in abusive relationships like let's
be scientific about it right let's not
judge and say that oh that's stupid
let's ask ourselves as scientists why
does the human mind do what it does why
on earth does someone stay with someone
who like hits them like what the is
going on in their mind and we have to
accept that there's a damn good reason
that they are in that relationship
because there's got to be a damn good
reason if they're in a relationship
where someone treats them like do
you have to think about scales being
weighed and if someone's treating you
like like that's really heavy so in
order to stay in that relationship
you've got to have something really
powerful to balance it and that's that
the mind prefers the familiar to the
good and the reason that people
victimize themselves is because they're
familiar with it right like why does
Jessica tell her so in her mind the part
of herself that beats herself up is
basically like a copy-paste
it's a copypasta of her dad it's her
dad's voice that lives in her mind it's
exactly what her dad would be saying in
those moments that's what she tells
herself she learned that and why on
earth does she continue to victimize
herself it's because her mind prefers
the known to the unknown and that makes
sense right like why do people stay in
abusive relationships it's because they
don't know what else is down there they
don't know if loneliness is next they
don't know if they're ever gonna
find someone down the road and think
about that for a second is someone in an
abusive relationship feels like they're
a piece of and if you really
believe that you're a piece of then
why do you think that you like the grass
would be greener on the other side you
believe that the grass is greener on the
other side if you have faith in yourself
as a human being to make it greener but
if you're in an abusive relationship you
don't think that you're a good person
and you don't think that you're gonna
find someone better you don't believe
that you're worthy of someone better so
you're gonna stay in the abusive
relationship and victimizing yourself is
an abusive relationship with yourself
right that's what it really is and we
stay in those because we don't think
that we can find a better way she
doesn't think that there's a part of
Jessica that doesn't understand that
there is a better way out there because
her dad taught her this since she was
like one-year-old or even younger
there were times honestly where she was
probably crying when she was six months
old and her dad did not pick her up and
comfort her and that left its mark
that's trauma what we're dealing with
here is not like anxiety or depression
it's trauma and the reason that people
victimize themselves is because that's
what they were taught to do monkey see
monkey do